---
author: BRUNO BATTISTI D'AMARIO
title: CHITARRE FOLK
date: October 20, 2017
image: https://f4.bcbits.com/img/a1593557344_10.jpg
volume: SME 47
---

Outstanding Italian Library session from the desirable Nike private label owned by Bruno Battisti D'Amario originally released in 1974 and featuring the great Silvano Chimenti on guitars and Edda Dell'Orso scats. Amazing, refined Score music released for TV and documentaries music production with superb loungy and soft sounds inspired by Western landscapes and natural panorama. Moody and bluesy jam with a mixture of various guitar tones, trippy atmospheres and themed descriptive music with addiction of soft Psychedelic moods, Easy Listening and allegro vibes alternated by sweet melodies. The cult maestro and Morricone's collaborator D'Amario here provides one of his highest masterwork in composition with its classical guitar added by Chimenti's Psychedelic notes and some mindmelting Edda Dell'Orso's scat numbers. Several exquisite Spaghetti Western inspired themes, maybe used as original score for obscure movie in the '70s / ethereal LSD Psychedelic vibes with isolated distorted Wah Wah / Lounge moods throughout with nature inspired themes / Folk & Blues influences / trippy Scat vocals / 70s Easy Listening and panoramic descriptive music for a very complete Library session. Listen to the stunning "VALLE CELESTE" with the evanescent vocals and the Psychedelic guitar notes accompaniment on a sweet melody, just an incredible and very deep theme. "FIORI E MACERIE" follows the same vein with crazy Psychedelic Drama mood music played with two 12-strings guitars. The superb loungy Blues "PELLE DI LUNA" with its harmonic traditional progression, the mindblowing "SPUMA DI MARE" with Edda's vocal design and the great panoramic Western "UN FIUME DI PERLE". Such a sophisticated and superb session, great ITALIAN LIBRARY!

<iframe width="100%" height="166" scrolling="no" frameborder="no" allow="autoplay" src="https://w.soundcloud.com/player/?url=https%3A//api.soundcloud.com/tracks/349324402&color=%23ff5500&auto_play=false&hide_related=false&show_comments=true&show_user=true&show_reposts=false&show_teaser=true"></iframe>